# Language evolution 
* The first step towards designing the language for our team was deciding what will it achieve differently from existing languages that already saturate the market. Although a specialized language could have been the answer we did not have enough knowledge of the market. So we decided to make a language that students and young code enthusiasts would enjoy using.
* All the languages that we had encountered till date did not support any kind of graphics. And using game engines is not possible for everyone as they require powerful hardware. For building even a simple game like snakes in c you have to manipulate characters which is a tedious task and does not feel natural. So we decided to design a language that despite being simple and not requiring powerful hardware, would be able to deliver proper graphics while maintaining the closeness to hardware as we see in c/c++ and java.
* We also tried to incorporate certain features found in python that we felt would be essential for a programmer. We decided that the language will be able to give output onto both a console and a specialized screen we call 'canvas', the canvas will be used to show graphics whereas the output to the console will help the programmer to find and isolate the source of error.
* At this time we realized that this language could be used to debug codes by displaying how a code is manipulating the memory and displaying the data blocks as different shapes on the screen. We also decided to give the programmer the power or authority to decide how many bits were to be allocated to integer data types as there are strict integer restrictions when data is manipulated for a game. We also incorporated the feature wherein the language automatically decides suitable data type for a given data ,thus reducing the number of segmentation faults that would be encountered .
* We also realized that the language needs a function to print characters to the canvas screen so that the programmer could display some messages. So we added the feature of a macro that can display messages. The language was also decided to be object oriented and imperative. It did not make sense to make this language declarative as we hoped that it would interact with the processor on a low level. 
* The language was decided to be object oriented to support the various entities that the programmer creates in the program to support the application such as the character that the user plays, the npc that the user could interact with and the objects of the environment. 
* Normal 'for' and 'while' loops exist in almost all languages that we studied for constant and variable iterations respectively. Although these are very basic and all programmers are familiar with them, we have also added a loop type named “loop” which allows for a better interaction between the language and the programmer allowing him/her to name the loop and terminate them with more control. 
* We have provided basic 'if-else' statements and made our own version of the 'switch' statement which is more flexible and supports adding statements and multiple variables to the syntax thus reducing the need to add tediously many if-else' statements to the language. 
* The image adding process was streamlined and attributes were added that can be manipulated while adding the image, although this programing language does not offer editing tools which are as powerful as a game engine, we think, the tools that we offer to manipulate image while importing and the pre-defined functions that it supports would allow user to make 2-D and pseudo 3-D games easily.
* We also thought of adding asynchronous programing to the language as there may be times when two process may not be dependent on each other, thus allowing the user to utilize the hardware to its utmost capacity thus increasing the language's throughput.
* Many languages also support the feature to define user type data types, which our language, being an object-oriented language, of course offers but as we have given the user control over how many bits of memory has to be allocated, the user can be much more creative with the use of resources.
* We have also added the control to catch errors when they are discovered so as to empower the programmer to debug the code easily and allow for better control over unexpected occurances during execution.
* The language has various logical operators, we wanted to keep them to a minimum but have followed the universally accepted paradigm, making this language feel natural to new users. We also included all the basic features we think a language must have such as relational operators and differentiated between line terminators and case terminators, a feature not readily available in C.
